Antecedently onFargo...
♪
LEON:
You need me.
I ain't just muscle.
-The Doctor's dead.
-Say his name again!
-Boss!
-OPAL: Enough!
-Say his name!
OPAL:
This is Happy's cousin!
Hey!
We're gonna need Happy
if we're gonna win, man!
-[clicking]
-[panting]
-ETHELRIDA: Dear Dr. Harvard...-Mmm.
-...I am writing
to inform you
-[choking]
of the actions
of one of your nurses.
[screams]
Attempted murder,
the authorities think.
ETHELRIDA:
Dead patients,
misappropriated personal items,
stolen medication.
No.
I suppose
you have to ask yourself--
is this
the kind of nurse you trust
around patients
in your fine establishment?
LOY:
Your business is mine now.
You'll sign over the deed
this afternoon.
[gunshot]
[distorted wail]
[grunts, panting]
Satchel is dead.
Boss.
MILLIGAN:
If you can't run,
just do like we practiced.
And remember,
if I don't come back,
I'm dead or in jail.
♪
[brakes squeaking]
[horn honks in distance]
["Insane Asylum" by Willie Dixon
and Koko Taylor playing]
[gunshots]
[engine starts]
-[gunshot]
-[woman screams]
♪ I went out♪
♪ To the insane asylum♪
♪ And I found my baby♪
♪ Out there♪
[engine revs]
♪ I said, "Please♪
♪ "Come back to me, darlin'♪
♪ "What in the world♪
♪ Are you doin' here?"♪
♪ Then the little girl♪
♪ Raised up her head♪
♪ Tears was streamin' down
from her eyes♪
♪ And these are the things♪
♪ That the little girl said♪
♪ "When your love♪
♪ Has ceased to be..."♪
♪ Lord have mercy♪
♪ "There's no other place
for me"♪
♪ Mmm...♪
♪ "If you don't hold me
in your arms"♪
♪ Oh, child, oh, child♪
♪ "I'd rather be here
from now on"♪
♪ Some people have it
halfway fair♪
♪ Without your love♪
♪ I ain't nowhere♪
♪
-[chatter, laughter]
-Hey.
Salute,huh?
-Salute!
-[laughter]
OFFICER:
Police! Dinner's over.
[handcuffs jangling]
-[indistinct chatter]
-Come on. Hey, hey, hey.
[kisses]
All right, all right. Let's go.
♪
[lighter clicking]
[razor buzzing]
He's gonna try
and get your goat.
Whatever brings him to yes.
You just remind that boy
who bailed out his papa.
Hey, hey, hey.
Hey, hey, hey, hey.
How long I been doing your hair?
I ever cut you?
[buzzing]
He's gonna try to take over.
Maybe.
But he's a country boy.
Why's he want
a big-city headache?
Power.
[buzzing stops]
♪
First off,
what happened
with your cousin Leon,
that deserves a conversation.
Meant to care for him,
show him the ropes.
Yeah, but...
how many strikes
is a strikeout?
This kid can't tie his shoe.
Should've called.
My cousin, my problem.
LOY:
You're right.
No excuse.
Losin' this war, is you?
LOY:
You're always losing,
till you win.
That's why it's called
an underdog.
Where I'm from...
...we mind our forefathers.
Take stock in their wisdom.
Like a rock knows the river.
And we think
your head's getting too high.
Who thinks?
Fathers, grandfathers.
Sharecroppers.
Men born to bondage...
who escaped the chain gang
and the hangman's noose.
Decades that tell us
the only thing worse
than livin' in darkness
is steppin' into the light.
So, what,
born on the bottom,
die on the bottom?
You get your picture
in the paper,
you think
it's just a picture of you?
We all in there,
crowded together.
Cops decide to bust a head,
they don't care which head,
long as the color's right.
We need your help, Happy.
The family.
He ain't my family.
My mama and yours,
like sisters,
which means
his kids are your family.
His wife is your family.
That makes him family.
I got a cousin on death row.
You want me to do what?
Sit in the chair with him
when the switch get throwed?
I need leverage.
Short-term.
Just some muscle
from the country to puff me up.
Show people I'm here to stay.
That's the Cosa Nostra, boy.
This ain't no Podunk thuggery.
You think you gonna, what,
drive 'em out of town?
Don't need 'em gone,
just in their place.
There's pressure from New York.
None of us can afford a war
much longer.
You got all the slaughterhouse
boys on your side.
Texas cousins.
Smugglin' from Oklahoma.
HAPPY:
Shit. [chuckles]
You make me sound
like a big deal.
[chuckles]
Maybe you should be helping me.
I told you this was a mistake.
Lionel Halloway,
stop messin' around.
You want to talk
about all boats risin',
that goes both ways.
It don't matter if you think
we should be in this war--
we're in it.
They killed my son.
Ten years old.
What did he ever do to anyone?
And they killed him.
And now they want
to snuff us out.
Us.
'Cause after they string me up,
they comin' after you.
♪
[sniffs]
Two weeks.
We put our strength behind you,
let it be known.
City hall and on the streets.
But you got to make things right
with my cousin.
How much?
Tell your mama
I miss her greens.
[footsteps departing]
[door opens]
[door closes]
Two weeks.
It'll be enough.
But we got to end this quick.
If I kill the brothers,
New York's
just gonna send two more.
Don't care about them.
I want justice for my boy.
And then we make a deal.
[applause]
Congratulations.
You're the flavor of the month.
Mayor called,
saw your picture in the paper.
Said he liked
the cut of your jib.
Just trying to keep
the streets safe, Captain.
Uh-huh.
You watching your back?
For what?
You bite the hand
that feeds you,
you're gonna feel the burn.
-[exhales]
-[phone ringing]
Excuse me.
Weff.
JOSTO: I wrote
your name on a bullet.
Want to meet up so I can give it to you, personal-like?
I'm sorry.
It's against police policy
to accept gifts
from the chain gang.
Which is ironical,
since I can give you
all the bullets I want.
I miss you, kid.
When are you coming home?
I'm home now.
You think I don't got records of  every dollar you took from me?
Maybe I send 'em to city hall,
see what the mayor thinks
of his hero cop then.
[phone chimes on receiver]
-Kid?
-[clicking]
Son of a bitch.
-Twitchy piece of shit!
-Hey.
One, two, three, four, five!
[speaking quietly]
JOSTO:
What's this?
You going steady now?
Boss...
We need to put the squeeze
on this cop.
Hit him where it hurts,
turn the city back to our side.
Boss, we got word
from New York.
They want this thing wrapped up.
It's too...
Oh, I'm sorry.
Is our fighting
for our lives
keeping people up at night?!
GAETANO:
Hey, J. Hey. Come here.
Yeah?
You make it personal.
Can't be personal.
Come on.
We need another mulignan.
-Yeah.
-Someone waiting in the wings,
thinks they can run things.
Somebody weak,
thinks they're strong.
A replacement for Cannon?
Someone we can deal with.
And what happens
to the now boss?
That's the new guy's problem.
But my guess is
that it rhymes with "flurder."
[Gaetano chuckles]
Hey, J,
what about the rat fuck cop?
Nobody turns their back on us
and lives.
♪ You may run on
for a long time♪
♪ Run on for a long time♪
♪ Run on
for a long time♪
♪ Let me tell you God Almighty
gonna cut you down♪
♪ You may run on
for a long time♪
♪ May run on for a long time♪
-♪ Run on for a long time♪
-[milk truck engine starts]
♪ Let me tell you God  Almighty's gonna cut you down♪
-♪ Go tell
that long-tongued liar♪
-♪ Yup, yup♪
-♪ Go tell that midnight rider♪
♪ Tell the gambler,
the rambler, backbiter ♪
♪ Tell them God Almighty's
gonna cut 'em down♪
-♪ Well, stop, God Almighty,
let me tell you the news♪
-♪ Do♪
-♪ My head's been wet
with the midnight dew♪
-♪ Do♪
♪ I've been down
on my bended knees♪
-♪ Do♪
♪ Talking with the man
from Galilee♪
♪ My God spoke
and he spoke so sweet♪
♪ I thought I heard
the shuffle of angel's feet♪
♪ He put one hand
upon my head♪
♪ Great God Almighty,  let me tell you what he said♪
-♪ Go tell
that long-tongued liar♪
-♪ Oh, well, well♪
-♪ Go tell that midnight rider♪
♪ Tell the gambler,
the rambler, backbiter♪
♪ Tell them God Almighty
gonna cut 'em down♪
♪ You may run on
for a long time♪
♪ You may
run on for a long time♪
♪ Run on for a long time♪
♪ Let me tell you God Almighty's
gonna cut you down♪
♪ You may throw your rocks
and hide your hand♪
♪ Plotting in the dark
against your fellow man♪
♪ But as sure as God made
the day and night♪
♪ What's done in the dark  will be brought to the light♪
♪ You can run and hide,
you can slip and slide♪
♪ Talk about the mote
in your neighbor's eye♪
♪ But sure as God made
the rich and poor♪
♪ You're going to reap
just what you sow♪
♪ You can run for a long time♪
♪ You may run on
for a long time♪
♪ Run on for a long time♪
♪ Let me tell you God  Almighty's gonna cut you down♪
-♪ Go tell
that long-tongued liar♪
-♪ Yup, yeah♪
-♪ Go tell that midnight rider♪
-♪ Hey, now♪
♪ Tell the gambler,
the rambler, backbiter♪
♪ Tell 'em God Almighty's
gonna cut 'em down.♪
You think Aunt Zelmare's okay?
That girl ain't met a trap
she can't squeeze out of
or a hole she can't fit into.
Momma...
...are we really cursed?
[Dibrell sighs]
Your great-grandmother was
in chains down in Mississippi.
Her daddy come over on a ship.
The captain of that ship was
the devil himself.
Theodore Roach.
There was a storm.
Water coming over the sides.
A hundred men shackled together
down below,
never seen the ocean, and here
they were fixin' to drown.
And that man-- the captain--
he just stood,
laughing and laughing.
-The ship went down?
-Not that night.
But they got thrown about
something fierce,
and on one go,
that captain got close enough
for your great-great granddaddy
to grab him.
And he choked the life
out of that man
with his own mouth full
of seawater.
Your grannie was six
when she saw him the first time.
The Roach--
eyes sewn shut, wooden nose.
And he's been
with us ever since.
You ever seen him?
I smell him more than see him.
Low tide, the sounds of...
Like creaking ropes.
Or the waves.
So he's mine now.
Can't we cast him away?
Get free?
Your aunt tried to take him,
but she's not what he likes.
-[chuckles]
-What does he like?
Sunshine.
Well, we're done loading in.
More than five thousand
in merchandise.
I'm supposed to stay here
for a couple of nights,
hold guard.
I can, uh, camp
on the couch downstairs.
I keep a shotgun loaded
next to the bed,
and I'm a real light sleeper.
Yes, ma'am. Sensible.
Can't be too careful these days.
Mm-hmm.
Well, I'm gonna see to dinner.
[door closes]
You check out Bird?
Who?
Sax player?
That's cool.
I want to talk to your father.
What?
Loy Cannon, the boss.
Can you help me?
Tell me where to go?
-You want to talk to my father?
-I worked it out.
How to get the house back.
-Please.
-ORAETTA: Hi there.
Hi.
Don't let her get me.
[rapid footsteps on stairs]
What?
Hi. Aw.
Well, now, will you look
at you, the happy couple.
Yeah, you caught us.
Lemuel Cannon. And you are?
Hon, I wondered
if I might bother you
to come up to my apartment.
I've got nothing to say to you.
Now, hon, let's not do this
in front of your boyfriend.
-He is not my boyfriend.
-More of a suitor.
Fine. You want to do this here?
You give me back my ring!
That's right.
I know you stole it from me.
And I have half a mind
to go to the police.
No police.
Great. Call them.
I can tell them
what else I saw up there.
All your tokens,
letters from the grave,
bottles of death, evidence.
Plus, how you like
to poison people's pies.
And who's gonna believe you?
LEMUEL:
I believe her.
Who that counts?
Excuse me?
The Devil's got a special place
in hell
for small minds
who betray their better's trust,
who take advantage
of their charitable acts.
You need to leave now.
Is that place above
or below the place you're going?
-There's a word
for people like you.
-No.
That's your word.
You invented it
to make yourself feel bigger.
But that's not what I am.
Walk away.
[whispering]:
What does it feel like
to be so sure you're right
and know that nobody cares?
Hmm?
I'll see you in your dreams.
Look, thanks for making the time
for me on such short notice.
Uh, one question
before we get started.
Who am I talking to here?
Him or you?
HAPPY:
You're talking to Leon.
He'll run things in the city.
We're just here for support.
Great. Isn't that great?
EBAL:
Tremendous.
Of course, if you want
to take over from Loy,
you know how that works.
Just sad I can't kill him twice.
Yeah, I heard
about that tune-up he gave you.
Some people got no respect
for a promise.
We don't make promises.
-We make deals.
-HAPPY: Then let's make a deal.
Leon's gonna take over
all of Loy's territory,
including the slaughterhouses
on the East Side.
And you gonna give him
a piece of trucking.
Jesus.
I ain't been fucked this rough
since prison.
MILVIN:
Absolutely not.
I am a city alderman,
and I'm coming in.
What's this?
A top secret meeting
of the Hi Ho club?
-Who the fuck is this?
-My father-in-law.
Kind of amazing
to see him walking and talking,
don't you think?
Considering he's made
entirely out of Play-Doh.
Ha fuckin' ha.
Can I talk to you outside?
JOSTO:  Do you just know when I'm having
a bad day, or are you
watching me from the bushes?
Laugh it up, greaseball.
Not sure yet.
Okay. Make it fast, Pops.
-I got a war to win.
-MILVIN: Fine.
I'll use small words
'cause I know you're low IQ.
The wedding's off.
You and your greasy wops
are public enemy number one.
So I'm breaking
this retard union
like glass in an emergency.
You hear me?
Don't call. Don't write.
-Means he's an idiot.
-[chuckles]: Oh,
-I'm an idiot?
-Yeah.
'Cause now's not the time
you call off a wedding.
Now's the time to renegotiate
the terms of our deal,
'cause you got me over a barrel,
and I'm spread thin,
and I'll spend anything
to keep from having
one more goddamn problem.
But clearly, you're not
smart enough to do that!
Listen to me, eggplant Einstein.
You and your kind
are getting run out of town
on a rail.
It doesn't take a wizard
to see that.
So, I'm doing us both a favor,
and I'm running away from you
like a fart in an elevator,
which is what you are.
[grunts]
Oh.
[grunting]
You're crazy.
I'm a U.S. alderman.
You can't punch a U.S. alderman.
Well, apparently, you can.
-Hmm. You hit him for me?
-Yeah.
-I'm-I'm... I'm touched.
-Ah.
We are brother, no?
-Come here, you big lug.
Come here, boy.
-[laughs]
-[grunts]
-[chuckles]
It's okay.
[door opens]
Boss.
You're still alive.
I hope so.
Anything from the lawman? Weff?
No.
Police raided Apex this morning.
I put the word out.
He ain't long for this world.
What about our friends
in the staties?
Laying low for now, I gather.
Waiting to see
which way this thing goes.
Like rats fleeing the ship.
Boss.
Charlie called.
He's on lookout at the JDC.
He said two hours ago,
the Italians had some visitors.
It was Leon.
LOY:
Skunk's gonna skunk.
Happy was with him.
[sighs]
It was blizzarding
when Satchel was born.
Middle of the night.
Why do babies always come
in the middle of the night?
OPAL:
It's the moon, my mama said.
Babies come like the tide.
Buel birthed him in a tub
with her mama.
I was downstairs with the girls.
I swear I couldn't hear a sound.
My missus.
Passing a 12-inch head
through a six-inch hole.
On my best day,
I'm half as tough as that.
[sighs]
And this ain't my best day.
[chuckles softly]
No, sirree.
That's behind me, I think.
♪
Hey, boy.
What you doing out here
all by your lonesome?
You hear me, boy?
What you got, shit in your ears?
-[chuckles]
-No.
No what?
Oh. Hey. Hey, hey, hey.
No you.
No boy.
No do what you're told.
No everything.
This is my world.
I'm the boss. I tell you...
what to do.
Hey. Hey. Hey.
Now fuck off.
Start the damn...
♪
[indistinct chatter]
LOY:
Odis, I own you.
JOSTO:
I miss you, kid.
-When are you coming home?
-♪ One little, two little...♪
LOY:
Boom!
♪ Four little, five little,
six little Indians♪
♪ Seven little, eight little,
nine little Indians♪
DEAFY:
Cheer up, palomino.
♪ One little, two little,
three little Indians♪
♪ Four little, five little,
six little Indians♪
♪ Seven little, eight little,
nine little Indians♪
♪ Ten little Indian boys.♪
Cop's not home.
I left him a surprise.
That's his car, though.
Got picked up by a squad car
this morning.
My bet,
he comes home the same way.
JOSTO:
All right.
Beat it up the street.
Keep your eyes peeled.
-Wait in the car?
-Yeah, let's go.
Thanks for the lift, Jimbo.
GAETANO:
You know the story
why Papa sends me away?
I think so. You got in trouble.
GAETANO:
Mm.
Groucho have that daughter
with big...
-Groucho?
-Mm-hmm.
Right. She's... Hey, man,
what-what was her name again?
Adelina.
Ah...
How old were you?
Eleven.
But already like an ox.
-[chuckles]
-[chuckles sarcastically]
Yeah, yeah.
I got a big dick, too, you know.
Big like a pickle.
-Just finish the story.
-Okay.
So, every day,
I follow her home from school.
"Adelina, I love you.
"Adelina,
my heart is like the moon,
and you're the sun."
[chuckles]
What does that even mean?
Who cares? It worked.
So, we are...
on the fire escape
outside her window...
-♪ One little, two little,
three little Indians♪
-[Gaetano speaks Italian]
...her father, Groucho,
grab me by the neck,
pull me in through the window,
-[continues mumbling]
-and he's choking me.
11 years old,
and he's choking me.
And Groucho was-- I remember--
he was, like, your size now.
Adelina, she beat his back.
"Daddy, please!
Daddy, stop!"
But...
he's going to kill me.
The boy who take
his little girl.
So what did you do?
You know, on the floor
there's the...
the glass from the window.
I grab a piece, and...
[grunts softly]
Where?
That's...
-that's why he...
-Yeah.
That's why Dad sent you away.
Back to Sardinia.
JIMBO:
You want us to tuck you in, too?
ODIS:
Yeah, you're a maroon.
We're here now.
Everything that happened...
[both laugh softly]
Come here.
-[laughs]
-Come here.
[knocking rhythmically]
[grunts]
♪
[crunching]
[door creaks in distance]
[door closes in distance]
[panting]
[door handle clicking]
[muttering softly]
[car door closes]
[grunts]
[exhales sharply]
♪ High on the mountain, oh♪
[whimpers]
♪ Wind blowing free♪
♪ Thinking about the days
that used to be♪
♪ High on the mountain, oh♪
♪ Standing all alone♪
♪ Wondering where the years
of my life have flown♪
♪ Oh, I wonder if you'll ever
think of me♪
♪ Or if time has blotted out
your memory♪
♪ As I listen to the breeze♪
♪ Blowing gently
through the trees♪
♪ I'll always cherish
what you meant to me...♪
[dogs barking in distance]
JOSTO:
Hurry up!
I got to piss.
[inhales softly]
[grunts]
What the fuck?
♪
Ah...
[groans]
♪
[snoring softly]
[sniffs]
[creaking, wind blowing]
[screaming]
[rapid footsteps]
[panting]
Hello, there, ma'am.
Are you okay?
Uh, yeah, I just got...
got a little scared is all.
Silly old me. What are you...
what are you doing here?
Ms. Mayflower,
you need to come with us.
-Huh? What? Where?
-We have a warrant
for your arrest.
For my, uh...
DETECTIVE 2:
He woke up.
The hospital administrator--
Dr. Harvard.
So, HQ told us to bring you in.
Oh. Well, that's great news.
Can I just maybe...?
I'm just gonna get my purse.
Hey, oh, excuse me. That...
You know, you take...
you take your hands off me!
-Police! Police!
-DETECTIVE 1: Ma'am,
we a the police.
You're only making it worse.
Well, okay, well,
this is all due to some very...
-a very silly misunderstanding.
-Yes, ma'am.
-I'm sure it is.
-If-if I... if I could just
maybe grab... grab my...
grab my purse,
then it wouldn't...
Oh, geez!
[engine idling]
[car door closes]
[engine revs]
[indistinct chatter]
[elevator bell dings]
[sighs]
My name is
Ethelrida Pearl Smutny.
I have an appointment
to see Mr. Cannon?
Thank you for taking the time
to meet
with me today, sir.
I'll be brief.
My son said I should hear
what you got to say.
But this thing is dead.
Your house is mine.
Your business is mine
for as long as I live,
which could be
another half an hour.
Exécution sans jugement sous les Rois Maures de Grenade.
-What?
-Your painting.
It's by Henri Regnault.
Painted in 1870,
when he was just 26.
He died the next year
in the Battle of Buzenval.
It's not the original.
No.
Saw it in a magazine.
Had a cat I know make me a copy.
Supposed to make me look
like a bad motherfucker.
What did you say it was called?
Summary Execution under
the Moorish Kings of Grenada.
You want me to give your parents
back their house.
No, sir.
I came to tell you
they earned it.
The original loan was $3,500.
Interest starting
at ten percent,
spread over six months.
That's $6,200.
They stole from me.
With all monies returned.
And seeing as how
you chose notto kill them,
I'm assuming you felt their
punishment should be monetary.
A fine.
I took their house.
You said the house was yours,
but they still have the deed.
They still pay the taxes.
Did they send you?
A girl for the sympathy factor?
Is that what you see? A girl?
You know a lot of girls
who study European art
andspeak two languages?
I came on my own
to right a wrong.
We don't do that here.
You're in a war,
and you've lost 27 men.
Something like that.
No. Exactly that.
27 men--
shot, stabbed, strangled.
27 men requiring the services
of a licensed mortician.
I've got the invoice here.
The total cost
comes out to $8,700.
That's not how it works.
8,700 in agreed-upon services.
Plus this.
Gold ring.
Pawn shop'd give you
four, five hundred.
Which would leave you at...
who the hell cares?
I already told you--
that's not how it works.
No. You haven't seen the part
that makes it priceless yet.
The part that's gonna make you
give me what I want.
There's a nurse who lives
across the street from me.
She had the ring.
So now you're selling me
a stolen ring.
She had a lot of other things,
this nurse.
Took them from her patients.
Kept them in a closet
next to their obituaries,
and medicine she gave them
to help them pass on.
This nurse?
Cops arrested her last night.
She poisons people, see?
And takes their things.
A keepsake, like this ring.
And I started thinking.
Whose ring is it?
So, I went to the library,
and looked through the obits.
I want you to give my folks
their house back.
And their business.
All debts forgave.
And just what the hell
do you think you've got
that's gonna make me do that?
I'm gonna help you win your war.
[sighs]
You do that,
you can have anything you want.
Swear it.
Swear.
Good.
♪
♪ Ah, ah-ah♪
♪ Yes, she did♪
♪ Oh, yeah♪
♪ People keep on learnin'♪
♪ Soldiers keep on warring♪
♪ World keep on turnin'♪
♪ 'Cause it won't be too long♪
♪ Oh, no♪
♪ Powers keep on lyin'♪
♪ Keep on lyin'♪
♪ While your people
keep on dyin'♪
♪ Keep on dyin'♪
♪ The world keep on turning♪
♪ 'Cause it won't be too long♪
♪ Oh, yeah♪
♪ I'm so glad
he let me try it again♪
♪ My last time on Earth  I lived a whole world of sin♪
♪ I'm so glad  I know more than I knew then♪
-♪ Gonna keep on tryin'♪
-♪ Yeah♪
♪ Till I reach
my highest ground.♪
MAN:
Now I get it.
[rooster crows]